What is UAMMD-structured and what is not?
=========================================

**UAMMD-structured** is a versatile software tool designed for molecular dynamics simulations of generic systems across various scales. Leveraging GPU acceleration, **UAMMD-structured** enables massive parallelization of computations, resulting in enhanced performance. This performance boost allows researchers to study phenomena involving larger time and space scales than those accessible through traditional CPU-based algorithms. **UAMMD-structured** is designed as a standalone executable that processes an input file containing all necessary simulation parameters. It also offers a Python API for increased flexibility and integration with other tools. To harness the full capabilities of **UAMMD-structured**, users need to familiarize themselves with the available options and input file format. Detailed information on these aspects is provided in subsequent sections of this documentation.

Built upon **UAMMD** (developed by Raul P. Pelaez), **UAMMD-structured** differs in that it is designed as an application, while **UAMMD** serves as a library primarily focused on hydrodynamic interaction simulations. **UAMMD-structured** employs certain functions and classes from **UAMMD**, such as particle data management and general architecture. Understanding **UAMMD**'s design is beneficial for those looking to modify **UAMMD-structured**. It's worth noting that **UAMMD-structured** exposes some of **UAMMD**'s algorithms, like hydrodynamic interactions and electrostatics, allowing for easy integration into simulations. For more information on **UAMMD**, visit: https://github.com/RaulPPelaez/UAMMD

**UAMMD-structured** differs from specialized molecular dynamics packages like **GROMACS** or **AMBER** in its scope and focus. It is not optimized for any particular scale, offering flexibility but potentially sacrificing some scale-specific optimizations. For efficient all-atom simulations, specialized tools like **GROMACS** or **AMBER** may be more suitable. In its approach to generic system simulations, **UAMMD-structured** aligns more closely with the philosophy of **LAMMPS**. However, **UAMMD-structured** distinguishes itself through its native GPU-centric design and implementation in modern C++ (C++14), enhancing extensibility. For more information on these software packages, visit: **GROMACS** (https://www.gromacs.org/), **AMBER** (https://ambermd.org/), and **LAMMPS** (https://www.lammps.org/)

**UAMMD-structured** stands out in certain areas, particularly for coarse-grained simulations. It features a batching system that enables effective simulation of numerous small, independent simulations on the GPU. Additionally, it offers conditional Verlet lists, which allow definition of interactions that consider structural information of particles, such as model, chain, or residue membership. These features make **UAMMD-structured** a powerful tool for researchers working with complex, multi-scale molecular systems.
